+++
## Provide a canonical URL if mirroring an OJS instance
canonicalurl = "https://epistemehealth.com/index.php/nab/article/view/13"

title = "From lab bench to workbench: Working in multidisciplinary applied research"

## Provide the article type and the ordering of its type in the contents page
articleType = "Professional Perspectives"
articleType_weight = "2"

# Provide author details
authors = [
  {surname = "Seet",  given_name = "Manuel Stephen",  affiliations = ["1"],  ORCID = "0000-0003-1807-4035", corresp = "yes", equalcontrib = "no", deceased = "no"}
]

affiliations = [{ ISNI ="0000 0001 2180 6431", ROR = "01tgyzw49", name = "Singapore Institute for Neurotechnology (SINAPSE), National University of Singapore, Singapore"}]

submitdate = "2020-05-11"
reviseddate = "2020-06-10"
acceptdate = "2020-06-14"
date = "2020-06-16T09:00:00+10:00"
modifieddate = "2020-06-16"

## Details like volume and issue cascade from the issue metadata. Language will cascade from site metadata.

articleID = 13
DOI = "10.35430/nab.2020.e13"
# volume = ""
# issue = ""
firstpage = "e13"
lastpage = ""
language = ""
keywords = ["Multidisciplinary research",
  "Applied research",
  "Professional development",
  "Collaboration"]


PDF = "nab.2020.e13.pdf"
PDFcanonical = "https://epistemehealth.com/index.php/nab/article/view/13/19"
XML = "nab.2020.e13.xml"
XMLcanonical = "https://epistemehealth.com/index.php/nab/article/view/13/20"
HTML = ""
HTMLcanonical = ""
EPUB = ""
EPUBcanonical = ""
customGalleys = [{ galleyname = "", galleyURL = "", galleycanonical = ""}]

outputs = ["html", "galleyPDF", "galleyXML"]

license = "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0"

abstract = "Multidisciplinary research has the potential to address pressing global challenges. When working across disciplinary boundaries, brain and behavioural scientists can contribute to technological developments that enhance human health, safety, well-being and performance. However, multidisciplinary research comes with its own unique challenges that can hinder team communication, cohesion and research progress. In this article, I share tips that can help readers to navigate the challenges of working in multidisciplinary applied research. It is important for researchers in diverse teams to gain cross-disciplinary literacy and self-confidence that enables them to contribute their full potential, and to engage teammates in a way that fosters collaboration based on effective communication and shared motivations. Ultimately, overcoming these challenges is a key step towards realising the benefits of multidisciplinary research to science and technology, and also contributes to the personal and professional development of individual researchers."

## Social media details for if the paper has a social media cover image or if authors have a twitter handle.
socialimage = ""
socialimagealt = ""
twitterhandle = ""

references = ["Ledford H. How to solve the world’s biggest problems. Nature. 2015;525(7569):308–311. doi: 10.1038/525308a.",
"Leahey E, Barringer SN, Ring-Ramirez M. Universities’ structural commitment to interdisciplinary research. Scientometrics. 2019;118(3):891–919. doi: 10.1007/s11192-018-2992-3",
"Institute of Medicine. Barriers to Interdisciplinary Research and Training. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press; 2000. p. 41–57. doi: 10.17226/9942.",
"Tushman M, O’Reilly C. Research and relevance: Implications of Pasteur’s quadrant for doctoral programs and faculty development. Academy of Management Journal. 2007;50(4):769–774. doi: 10.5465/amj.2007.26279169.",
"Ding K, Dragomir A, Bose R, Osborn LE, Seet MS, Bezerianos A, et al. Towards machine to brain interfaces: Sensory stimulation enhances sensorimotor dynamic functional connectivity in upper limb amputees. Journal of Neural Engineering. 2020;17(3):035002. doi: 10.1088/1741-2552/ab882d.",
"Bracken LJ, Oughton EA. ‘What do you mean?’ The importance of language in developing interdisciplinary research. Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers. 2006;31(3):371–382. doi: 10.1111/j.1475-5661.2006.00218.x.",
"MacLeod M. What makes interdisciplinarity difficult? Some consequences of domain specificity in interdisciplinary practice. Synthese. 2018;195(2):697–720. doi: 10.1007/s11229-016-1236-4."]
+++

