+++
## Provide a canonical URL if mirroring an OJS instance
canonicalurl = "https://epistemehealth.com/index.php/nab/article/view/16"

title = "mGlu5: A double-edged sword for aversive learning related therapeutics"

## Provide the article type and the ordering of its type in the contents page
articleType = "Review Articles"
articleType_weight = "4"

# Provide author details
authors = [
  {surname = "Tan",  given_name = "Shawn Zheng Kai",  affiliations = ["1","2"],  ORCID = "0000-0001-7258-9596", corresp = "shawntan@ebi.ac.uk", equalcontrib = "no", deceased = "no"},
  {surname = "Kim", given_name = "Jee Hyun", affiliations = ["3"], ORCID = "0000-0002-1299-4300", corresp = "no", equalcontrib = "no", deceased = "no"}
]

affiliations = [{ ISNI ="0000 0004 1763 347X", ROR = "02zhqgq86", name = "School of Biomedical Science, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong"},
{ISNI = "0000 0000 9709 7726", ROR = "02catss52", name = "European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI), Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Cambridge CB10 1SD, United Kingdom"},
{ISNI = "0000 0001 1015 882X", ROR = "02czsnj07", name = "IMPACT – the Institute for Mental and Physical Health and Clinical Translation, School of Medicine, Deakin University, Geelong, VIC, Australia"}
]

submitdate = "2020-11-08"
revreqdate = "2020-12-08"
reviseddate = "2021-01-15"
acceptdate = "2021-01-16"
date = "2021-01-17T09:00:00+10:00"
modifieddate = "2021-01-18"

## Details like volume and issue cascade from the issue metadata. Language will cascade from site metadata.

articleID = 16
DOI = "10.35430/nab.2021.e16"
# volume = ""
# issue = ""
firstpage = "e16"
lastpage = ""
language = ""
keywords = ["mGlu5",
  "Learning and Memory",
  "Aversive Learning",
  "Feat Conditioning",
  "Neuropharmacology"]


PDF = "nab.2021.e16.pdf"
PDFcanonical = ""
XML = "nab.2021.e16.xml"
XMLcanonical = ""
HTML = ""
HTMLcanonical = ""
EPUB = ""
EPUBcanonical = ""
customGalleys = [{ galleyname = "", galleyURL = "", galleycanonical = ""}]

outputs = ["html", "galleyPDF", "galleyXML"]

license = "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0"

abstract = "Aversive memories underlie many types of anxiety disorders. One area of research to more effectively treat anxiety disorders has therefore been identifying pharmacological targets to affect memory processes. Among these targets, the metabotropic glutamate 5 receptor (mGlu5) has received attention due to the availability of drugs to utilize its role in learning and memory. In this review, we highlight preclinical studies examining the role of mGlu5 at various stages of aversive learning and its inhibition via extinction in order to gain a better understanding of its therapeutic potential. We suggest that mGlu5 has distinct roles at different stages of memory that not only makes it a tricky target, but a double-edged sword as a therapeutic. However, the selective involvement of mGlu5 in different memory stages allows for certain precision that could be harnessed clinically. We therefore suggest potential applications, limitations, and pitfalls when considering use of mGlu5 modulators as therapeutics. In addition, we recommend future studies to address important gaps in this literature, such as sex and age factors in light of anxiety disorders being more prevalent in those demographics."

## Social media details for if the paper has a social media cover image or if authors have a twitter handle.
socialimage = ""
socialimagealt = ""
twitterhandle = ""

references = [""]
+++

